Once we have Docker Toolbox or Docker Desktop installed and running,
we can start to use something called the Docker Client.
Now Docker Client is a way to interact with the actual
engine behind the scenes or Docker daemon,
you may hear,
and this will allow us to run commands that can then interact with images,
Docker images or take those images and make running
containers using other types of commands,
and this is all done through the Docker Client,
and again, this works with Docker Toolbox and with Docker Desktop.
As mentioned, this tool, Docker Client,
is going to allow us to interact with the Docker Engine,
the Docker daemon that's running behind the scenes. Through using
this tool, we can build and manage images. We can then take those
images and run and manage containers.
So let's look at some of the commands that you could use as
you start to work with the Docker Client.
Now, some of the key commands are going to be shown here,
and this is a small subset of the commands.
There are quite a few that you can run.
One of the big ones you'll use, though, is called docker pull.
You might find a Node.js image or a ASP.NET or PHP or whatever it may be,
you might have an image up in Docker Hub and you want to pull that
from Docker Hub down to your development environment.
Well we can use the Docker pull command to do that. Once we have an image we
can run it. We can use docker run to do that. We simply say docker run and
then give it the name of the image that we want to run. We can also list all
of our images by simply running docker images. And then when it comes to
containers, we can run docker ps,
and this will list all of the different containers that we might have available.
Now, once you have the containers and the images and everything available,
we can then start containers, we can stop containers, and do all kinds of
things that we're going to look at throughout the course.
And so before we go too far, though,
let's take a look at using the Docker Client with these commands and see how
they can interact with our different images and containers that we may have or that we might want to grab from Docker Hub.